## Critiquing Research Ideas

**1 Purpose of this Assignment**

As you probably know by now, research continually undergoes what is
known as peer review, whereby other people in your discipline, and in
the broader field of computer science, are called upon to evaluate your
work.

Although the process of peer review is not perfect (in fact, as you can
read in one of the references below, it is often very imperfect!), it is
one of the most important (and most common) ways you will be evaluated
as a researcher. As the term "peer" implies, you will be called upon to
review the work of other researchers. In this assignment, you will write
a review of each other's research project proposals from Assignment 2.
The purpose of this assignment is to give you practice writing reviews
of each other's work.

In practice, you will often be given papers, proposals and projects to
review whose subject matter falls outside your immediate area of
expertise. When this happens, you are still expected to give as thorough
a review as possible but indicate that you are not an expert in the area
(many review forms ask for a self-assessment of expertise). This
assignment will require you to read some project proposals outside of
your immediate area, as well. Do your best! (A good reviewer will often
go beyond reading the actual paper or proposal itself and familiarize
him or herself with the related subject material.)

**2 Problem**

You may find some of the following resources helpful:

• [We are Sorry to Inform
You\...](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/freeabs_all.jsp?arnumber=1556500){target="_blank"
rel="noopener"}\
• [An Evaluation of the Ninth SOSP
Submissions](http://www.cs.umbc.edu/cra/etw98/writing-papers.pdf){target="_blank"
rel="noopener"}

**3 Task**

The TAs will post the assignments of papers to groups shortly; you will
meet in a group of three students that is different from your original
group.

*Write project reviews.* For each set of projects that you are asked to
review, you should (1) rate your level of expertise in the general
subject area on a score of 1-5; and (2) rate each project from 1-5
according to the following categories:

• *Novelty:* How unique or new is the idea? Has the work been placed in
the context of the related previous work?

• *Potential impact/Technical merit:* How likely is the idea to advance
its particular field signif- icantly? How well thought out are the
ideas? Is there an evaluation plan?

• *Clarity/Presentation:* Are the ideas clearly presented? Are there
spelling or grammatical errors?

In addition to providing scores for each of these, you are welcome to
provide specific comments on each of those three categories. You should
also provide detailed comments on the writeup, suggesting changes to the
presentation, approach/technique, etc.

*Select the best paper from your batch.* Think of your small group as a
kind of "mini program committee"; the three of you should come to a
consensus about the best project proposal among those that were given to
you. You should nominate this project for the best project award and
provide a short defense of your selection (imagine yourself arguing at a
meeting trying to defend your selected project!).
